# NAME

itcl::scope - capture the namespace context for a variable

# SYNOPSIS

**itcl::scope** *name*

# DESCRIPTION

Creates a scoped value for the specified *name*, which must be a
variable name. If the *name* is an instance variable, then the scope
command returns a name which will resolve in any context as an instance
variable belonging to *object*. The precise format of this name is an
internal detail to Itcl. Use of such a scoped value makes it possible to
use instance variables in conjunction with widgets. For example, if you
have an object with a private variable `x`, and you can use `x` in
conjunction with the `-textvariable` option of an entry widget. Before
itcl3.0, only common variables could be used in this manner.

If the *name* is not an instance variable, then it must be a common
variable or a global variable. In that case, the scope command returns
the fully qualified name of the variable, e.g., `::foo::bar::x`.

If the *name* is not recognized as a variable, the scope command returns
an error.

Ordinary variable names refer to variables in the global namespace. A
scoped value captures a variable name together with its namespace
context in a way that allows it to be referenced properly later. It is
needed, for example, to wrap up variable names when a Tk widget is used
within a namespace:

    namespace foo {
        private variable mode 1

        radiobutton .rb1 -text "Mode #1"         -variable [scope mode] -value 1
        pack .rb1

        radiobutton .rb2 -text "Mode #2"         -variable [scope mode] -value 2
        pack .rb2
    }

Radiobuttons `.rb1` and `.rb2` interact via the variable \"mode\"
contained in the namespace \"foo\". The **scope** command guarantees
this by returning the fully qualified variable name `::foo::mode`.

You should never attempt to craft your own scoped variable names, even
if you believe you\'ve flawlessly reverse-engineered the encoding.
Instead, you should always use the scope command to generate the
variable name dynamically. Then, you can pass that name to a widget or
to any other bit of code in your program.

# KEYWORDS

code, namespace, variable
